docs: document ProviderConfig guidelines and current state (#66)
openmcp-project/docs: docs/developers/serviceprovider/02-service-providers.mdx

Service providers must expose a `ProviderConfig` which platform operators use to configure provider behavior. Because [provider deployment](https://openmcp-project.github.io/docs/developers/provider_deployment/) does not support passing arguments to the binary directly, configuration must be expressed via this API.

:::warning Important Design Consideration
The current `ProviderConfig` pattern in many existing Service Providers incorrectly mixes three separate concerns:
1. **Controller operational configuration** (correct — belongs in ProviderConfig)
2. **Deployment artifacts** like image URLs and chart locations (incorrect — should live in future Registry API, tracked in [backlog#384](https://github.com/openmcp-project/backlog/issues/384))

> 3. **Tenant constraints** like `allowedProviders` or version policies (incorrect — should live in future TenantPolicy/ServiceOffering concept)

Reviewer: I think it is not clear that `availableProviders` refers to crossplane providers.

```suggestion
3. **Tenant constraints** like `availableProviders` in [service provider crossplane](https://github.com/openmcp-project/service-provider-crossplane) or version policies (incorrect — should live in future TenantPolicy/ServiceOffering concept)
```

When designing your `ProviderConfig`, **only include controller operational settings** — configuration that controls how your controller reconciles, not what it deploys or what tenants can use. Structure your API to allow graceful deprecation of deployment and constraint fields when the Registry and TenantPolicy systems become available. See the [ProviderConfig Guidelines](./design#serviceproviderconfig-guidelines) for detailed recommendations.
:::

ProviderConfig should contain **controller operational settings only**, such as:
- **Reconciliation behavior**: `pollInterval`, `maxConcurrentReconciles`, `requeueAfter`
- **Timeouts and retries**: `retryBackoff`, `reconcileTimeout`, `helmReleaseTimeout`
- **Observability**: `enableMetrics`, `logLevel`, `enableTracing`
- **Controller features**: `enableDriftDetection`, `enableStatusReporting`

> - **Platform secrets**: `imagePullSecrets`, `caBundleRef` (for controller operation)

Reviewer: I really like the description but I would suggest to leave the highlighted important section earlier and have the description replace the comprehensive list of parameters which is redundant to the referenced guideline. Move the guideline from the design doc to the dev guide instead.

```suggestion
:::

When designing your `ProviderConfig`, **only include controller operational settings** — configuration that controls how your controller reconciles, not what it deploys or what tenants can use. Structure your API to allow graceful deprecation of deployment artifact and tenant constraint fields when the Registry and TenantPolicy systems become available. See the [ProviderConfig Guidelines](./design#serviceproviderconfig-guidelines) for detailed recommendations.
```

Author: Addressed with [`e27adbe` (this PR)](https://github.com/openmcp-project/docs/pull/66/commits/e27adbea854535a2fbaad65b2ac6b87967f821b4)

### Ideal Minimal ProviderConfig

A well-designed `ProviderConfig` contains **only controller operational settings** — configuration that controls how your ServiceProvider controller reconciles, not what it deploys:

```yaml
apiVersion: myservice.services.openmcp.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: ProviderConfig
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  # Reconciliation behavior
  pollInterval: 1m
  maxConcurrentReconciles: 5

  # Timeouts
  helmReleaseTimeout: 10m
```

**Recommended operational fields:**

| Category | Fields | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| Reconciliation | `pollInterval`, `maxConcurrentReconciles`, `requeueAfter` | Control reconcile frequency and parallelism |
| Timeouts | `retryBackoff`, `reconcileTimeout`, `helmReleaseTimeout` | Prevent hung operations |
| Observability | `enableMetrics`, `logLevel`, `enableTracing` | Controller diagnostics |
| Features | `enableDriftDetection`, `enableStatusReporting` | Toggle controller behaviors |

> | Trust | `caBundleRef` | Access to registries and trust bundles |

Author: I am not so sure about "trust" and `caBundleRef` in `ProviderConfig` yet. Will this stay part of the `ProviderConfig` or is that something that a registry or any other API should cover as well? 🤔 

That topic is deployment specific, since the service provider needs to handle the ConfigMap syncing as part of the domain service installation as well, see https://github.com/openmcp-project/service-provider-crossplane/blob/main/docs/configuration/custom-ca.md

Reviewer: I think the answer is we don't know as long as there is so much uncertainty regarding platform registry and tenant policy topics. I think it is good to have it in the guide to make developers aware of the topic and we will update these sections as soon as we know more about registry/tenant policies.
